<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
 "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>pi-qmc: Density Estimators</title>
<meta charset="UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="pi.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Density Estimators</h1>

<h2>Real-space on a rectangular grid</h2>
<p>The simplest way to collect the density is to create a rectangular
array of bins and histogram the beads of the paths.
For example, a grid defined by 
<ul>
<li><tt>xmin, xmax, nx</tt></li>
<li><tt>ymin, ymax, ny</tt></li>
<li><tt>zmin, zmax, nz</tt></li>
</ul>
has <tt>nx*ny*nz</tt> rectangular bins,
each with dimension <tt>dx = (xmax-xmin)/nx</tt> by
<tt>dy = (ymax-ymin)/nz</tt> by <tt>dz = (zmax-zmin)/nz</tt>.
The bin with indicies <tt>(i, j, k)</tt> is centered at
<tt>( xmin+(i+0.5)*dx, ymin+(j+0.5)*dy, zmin+(k+0.5)*dz )</tt>.
</p>
<p>Each time a measurement is made, the position of all
<tt>npart*nslice</tt> beads is checked, where <tt>npart</tt> is
the number of particles of the species whose density is being measured.
If a bead is inside one of the bins, that bin is increased by 
<tt>1./nslice</tt>. If all beads lie in the grid bins, then the 
bins sum to <tt>npart</tt>. Otherwise the total is less than <tt>npart</tt>;
this can happen if the grid dimensions do not fill the simulation supercell.
To convert the measurement to density, divide by the volume of a bin,
<tt>dx * dy * dz</tt>.
</p>


<h2>Real-space on arbitrary grids</h2>

<h2>Density in k-space</h2>
<p>
Since <span class="pi">pi</span> 
uses a position basis, we often collect density fluctuations in 
real space.
However, most textbook descriptions
of density fluctioans are in k-space, and results for
homogeneous systems are often best represented in k-space. Here
we give a brief summary of common definitions for pedagogical purposes.
For simplicity we write all formulas for spinless particles.
</p>
<p>
The dimensionsless Fourier transform of the density operator
is (Eqs. 1.11 and 1.66 of Giuliani and Vignale)
<div class="math">
n<sub><b>q</b></sub> 
&nbsp;=&nbsp; Σ<sub>j</sub>
e<sup>-i<b>k</b>·<b>r</b><sub>j</sub></sup>
&nbsp;=&nbsp; Σ<sub><b>k</b></sub>
  a<sup>†</sup><sub><b>k</b>-<b>q</b></sub> a<sub><b>k</b></sub>.
</div>
Note that <span class="math">n<sub>0</sub> = N</span>, the total
number of particles.
</p>
<p>The <span class="pi">pi</span> code does not presently calculate
this expectation value. If it is implemented in the future, it should
return a complex expectation value for each k-vector.
The imaginary part of this estimator will be zero for systems with 
inversion symmetry about the origin.</p>
<p>Homegeneous systems, such as liquid helium or
the electron gas, will have 
<span class="math">〈n<sub><b>q</b></sub>〉 = 0</span>
for all <span class="math"><b>q</b> ≠ 0</span>.
In those cases, it is better to calculate the 
<a href="PairCorrelations.xhtml#sk">static structure factor</a>.
</p>

</body>
</html>

