<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC
 "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN"
 "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>pi-qmc: List of All Estimators</title>
<meta charset="UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="pi.css" type="text/css"/>
<script type="text/javascript" src="pagecontents.js"></script>
</head>

<body>
<h1>List of All Estimators</h1>

<ul>
<li><b>AngularMomentumEstimator</b> (<i>scalar/angular-momentum</i>)<br/>
Measure the momentum in two-dimensions in a magnetic field.
</li>
<li><b>BondLengthEstimator</b> (<i>scalar-length/bond-length</i>)<br/>
Measure the length of a molecular bond.
</li>
<li><b>BoxEstimator</b> (<i>scalar/in-box</i>)<br/>
Measure the fraction of time a particle is in a boxed range.
</li>
<li><b>CounductanceEstimator</b> (<i>dynamic-array/conductance</i>)<br/>
Measure dynamic correlations of current for polarizability.
</li>
<li><b>CounductivityEstimator</b> (<i>dynamic-array/conductivity</i>)<br/>
Measure dynamic correlations of current density for conductivty.
</li>
<li><b>CounductivityEstimator2D</b> (<i>dynamic-array/conductivity-2D</i>)<br/>
Measure dynamic correlations of current density for conductivty in two 
dimensions.
</li>
<li><b>CoulombEnergyEstimator</b> (<i>scalar-energy/coulomb-energy</i>)<br/>
Measure the Coulomb energy using the thermodynamic estimator.
</li>
<li><b>CountCountEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-array/count-count</i>)<br/>
Measure the dynamic correlation of occupations on a grid.
</li>
<li><b>DensCountEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-array/density-count</i>)<br/>
Measure the dynamic correlation of density with occupations on a grid.
(Not implemented.)
</li>
<li><b>DensDensEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-array/density-density</i>)<br/>
Measure dynamic correlations of density.
</li>
<li><b>DensityEstimator</b> (<i>array/density</i>)<br/>
Measure particle density.
</li>
<li><b>DiamagneticEstimator</b> (<i>scalar/diamagnetism</i>)<br/>
Measure diamagnetic susceptibility using path area.
</li>
<li><b>DipoleEstimator</b> (<i>scalar-length/dipole</i>)<br/>
Measure the electric dipole of a localized, non-period system.
</li>
<li><b>DynamicPCFEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-array/pair-correlation</i>)<br/>
Measure the dynamic correlations of a pair correlation function.
</li>
<li><b>EIndEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-array/induced-e-field</i>)<br/>
Measure the induced electric field correction for the ConductivityEstimator.
</li>
<li><b>EMARateEstimator</b>
(<i>scalar/ema-recomination-rate</i>)<br/>
Measure electron and hole recombination rate.
</li>
<li><b>FreeEnergyEstimator</b>
(<i>histogram/free-energy</i>)<br/>
Measure relative free energies for different actions.
</li>
<li><b>FrequencyEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-scalar/frequency</i>)<br/>
Measure relative free energies for different actions.
</li>
<li><b>JEstimator</b>
(<i>array/singlet-triplet</i>)<br/>
Measure singlet-triplet splitting with mangetic field dependence.
</li>
<li><b>PairCFEstimator</b>
(<i>array/pair-correlation</i>)<br/>
Measure pair correlation functions.
</li>
<li><b>PermutationEstimator</b>
(<i>histogram/permutation</i>)<br/>
Measure distribution of permutations.
</li>
<li><b>PositionEstimator</b>
(<i>scalar-length/position</i>)<br/>
Measure average position of a particle.
</li>
<li><b>SpinChargeEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-array/spin-charge</i>)<br/>
Measure dynamic correlation of currents for different species.
</li>
<li><b>ThermoEnergyEstimator</b> (<i>scalar-energy/thermo-energy</i>)<br/>
Measure the total energy using the thermodynamic estimator.
</li>
<li><b>VIndEstimator</b>
(<i>dynamic-scalar/induced-voltage</i>)<br/>
Measure the induced voltage correction for the ConductivityEstimator.
</li>
<li><b>VirialEnergyEstimator</b> (<i>scalar-energy/virial-energy</i>)<br/>
Measure the total energy using the virial estimator.
</li>
<li><b>WindingEstimator</b>
(<i>histogram/winding</i>)<br/>
Measure distribution of periodic windings.
</li>
<li><b>ZeroVarDensityEstimator</b> (<i>array/zero-var-density</i>)<br/>
Measure point-contact density with zero-varience within pair approximation.
</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>

